What is Gherkin ?
Gherkin is a domain-specific language (DSL) used for writing structured tests that can be understood by both technical and non-technical 
stakeholders. It is primarily used in Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) frameworks like Cucumber, where the focus is on defining tests 
in a business-readable, natural language format.


Keywords used in Cucumber : Scenario, feature, Feature file, scenario outline, step definition

Scenario : In Cucumber Testcases are represented as Scenarios.
			Scenarios Contain Steps which are equivqlent to test steps and use the following keywords(Gherkin Syntax) 
			to denote them: Given, When, Then, But, and And(case sensitive)
			
			Given : Precondition are mentioned in the given keyword
			When  : The purpose of when steps is to describe the user action.
			Then  : The purpose of Then Steps is to observe the expected output. The observations should be related to the business 
					value/benefit of your Feature Description
					
			Example Scenario :
			
			Given user is on Pay Credit Card Page
			When User Fills al details and Selected Minimum amount option
			And User clicks on Pay button
			
			Then Credit Card Confirmation Page is displayed 		
			And If reference number is displayed		
			But error Message is not displaying		
					
			We are going to add one more Scenario and will use the And and But keywords:
				And: This is used for Statements that are an addition to the previous steps and represent positive statements
				But: This used for Statements that are an addition to previous steps and represent negative statements
	
Feature and Feature File:
			Feature represent Business Requirement.
			Feature File Act as a test Suite Which Consist of all Scenarios.
			
			
			In Cucumber, Feature file contain Scenarios. We can Simply create feature file with .feature extension
			scenarios belonging to specific area of application will be grouped into one Feature file
			
			
			The text that immediately follows the Featured Keyword, and is in the same line, Is the Title of the Feature File
			
			Feature File should contain either Scenario or Scenario outline. the naming convention for Feature File Should be 
			lower case with .feature Extention
			
			
Question : What is Maven project?	Section-76 in starting see video		
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
							